The Botany of the Eastern Borders, with the Popular Names and Uses of the Plants, and of the
Customs and Beliefs which have been associated with them, by George Johnson, M.D. This, the
first volume of The Natural History of the Eastern Borders, is a book calculated to please
a very large body of readers. The botanist will like it for the able manner in which the various
plants indigenous to the district are described. The lover of Old World associations will be
delighted with the industry with which Dr. Johnson has collected, and the care with which he
has recorded their popular names, and preserved the various bits of folk lore associated with
those popular names, or their supposed medicinal virtues. The antiquary will be gratified by
the bits of archæological gossip, and the biographical sketches so pleasantly introduced; and
the general reader with the kindly spirit with which Dr. Johnson will enlist him in his company--

 "    .    .    .   Unconstrain'd to rove along
  The bushy brakes and glens among."

Marry, it were a pleasant thing to join the Berwickshire Natural History Club in one of their
rambles through the Eastern Borders.

Mr. Bohn has just added to his Antiquarian Library a volume which will be received with great
satisfaction by all who take an interest in the antiquity of Egypt. It is a translation by
the Misses Horner of Dr. Lepsius' Letters from Egypt, Ethiopia, and the Peninsula of Sinai,
with Extracts from his Chronology of the Egyptians, with reference to the Exodus of the Israelites,
revised by the Author. Dr. Lepsius, it may be mentioned, was at the head of the scientific
expedition appointed by the King of Prussia to investigate the remains of ancient Egyptian
and Ethiopian civilisation, still in preservation in the Nile valley and the adjacent countries;
and in this cheap volume we have that accomplished traveller's own account of what that expedition
was able to accomplish.

We are at length enabled to answer the Query which was addressed to us some time since on the
subject of the continuation of Mr. MacCabe's Catholic History of England. The third volume
is now at press, and will be issued in the course of the next publishing season. We think the
editor would have some difficulty in authenticating many of the epitaphs in his collection,
which seems to have been formed upon no settled principle.--The Physiology of Temperance and
Total Abstinence, being an Examination of the Effects of the Excessive, Moderate, and Occasional
Use of Alcoholic Liquors on the Healthy Human System, by Dr. Carpenter: a shilling pamphlet,
temperately written and closely argued, and well deserving the attention of all, even of the
most temperate.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

LOWNDES' BIBLIOGRAPHER'S MANUAL. Pickering. 8 Vols. London. Vol. III.

MRS. ELLIS'S SOCIAL DISTINCTION. Tallis's Edition. Vols. II. and III. 8vo.

REPLIES. We have again to beg those Correspondents who favour us with REPLIES to complete them
by giving the Volume and Page of the original QUERIES. This would give little trouble to each
Correspondent, while its omission entails considerable labour upon us.

W. C. "When Greeks join'd Greeks" is from Lee's Alexander the Great.

A CONSTANT READER. The contractions referred to stand for Pence and Farthings.

C. W. (Bradford). We can promise that if the book in question is obtained, our Correspondent
shall have the reading of it.

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE. We hope next week to lay before our readers DR. DIAMOND's process
for printing on albumenized paper. We shall also reply to several Photographic querists.

       *       *       *       *       *

MURRAY'S HANDBOOKS FOR TRAVELLERS.

A NEW AND CHEAPER ISSUE.

HANDBOOK--TRAVEL TALK. 3s. 6d.

HANDBOOK--BELGIUM AND THE RHINE. 5s.

